DOCS-2004: TrueCommand 2.0-Beta Release Notes (#881)
truenas/documentation: content/ReleaseNotes/TrueCommand/2.0-Beta.md

---
title: "2.0-Beta"
weight: 10
---

**May 4, 2021**

[TrueCommand 2.0](https://www.truenas.com/docs/truecommand/devnotes/) is now available in BETA version and extends TrueCommand to manage, create, and delete datasets and snapshots. TrueNAS SCALE clusters and their datasets can also be created and managed.  Many other improvements significantly simplify storage operations and dramatically improve performance and responsiveness. TrueCommand 2.0 is expected to be released in June.

2.0 greatly improves the predictability, reliability, and total cost of ownership of production systems. Significant new features include:

* Faster Database
* Real-Time Stats
* Storage Navigator
* iSCSI Manager
* Improved System-Down alerts
* Secure Web-Proxy for Cloud
* TrueNAS SCALE cluster UI

> [TrueCommand](https://www.truenas.com/truecommand/) was launched in 2019 as a single pane of glass management system for TrueNAS fleets. [TrueCommand 1.3](https://www.truenas.com/docs/truecommand/) has been adopted by well over three thousand organizations to manage their NAS fleets. TrueCommand is deployed as a Container, as a VM, or as a Cloud service, aka [TrueCommand Cloud](https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/truenas-with-truecommand-cloud/). As promised, TrueCommand remains free for users with less than 50 drives and is very affordable for larger organizations, where TrueCommand coordinates a team of people to manage many systems on a 24 x 365 basis.

Reviewer: Let's set the 1.3 link as a relref to the 1.3 release notes: 
```suggestion
[TrueCommand](https://www.truenas.com/truecommand/) was launched in 2019 as a single pane of glass management system for TrueNAS fleets. [TrueCommand 1.3]({{< relref "/ReleaseNotes/TrueCommand/1.3.md" >}}) has been adopted by well over three thousand organizations to manage their NAS fleets. TrueCommand is deployed as a Container, as a VM, or as the [TrueCommand Cloud](https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/truenas-with-truecommand-cloud/) service. TrueCommand is free for users with less than 50 drives and is very affordable for larger organizations, where TrueCommand coordinates a team of people to manage many systems on a 24 x 365 basis.
```

Reviewer: Added a couple text tweak suggestions too

2.0 greatly improves the predictability, reliability, and total cost of ownership of production systems. Significant new features include:

* Faster Database
* Real-Time Stats
* Storage Navigator
* iSCSI Manager
* Improved System-Down alerts
* Secure Web-Proxy for Cloud
* TrueNAS SCALE cluster UI

[TrueCommand](https://www.truenas.com/truecommand/) was launched in 2019 as a single pane of glass management system for TrueNAS fleets. [TrueCommand 1.3]({{< relref "/ReleaseNotes/TrueCommand/1.3.md" >}}) has been adopted by well over three thousand organizations to manage their NAS fleets. TrueCommand is deployed as a Container, as a VM, or as the [TrueCommand Cloud](https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/truenas-with-truecommand-cloud/) service. TrueCommand is free for users with less than 50 drives and is very affordable for larger organizations, where TrueCommand coordinates a team of people to manage many systems on a 24 x 365 basis.

## 2.0-Beta Changelog

> ### New Feature

Reviewer 2: Do we want to list any of the large epic tickets here for Cluster management, iSCSI manager or other big features?

Reviewer: this is a straight port of the "New Feature" type tickets from https://jira.ixsystems.com/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10300&version=12906 - do you want the Epic section combined in here or done as a separate section?

</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/TC-1640'>TC-1640</a>] -         Incorrect TrueCommand Email Alert Subject Lines
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/TC-1650'>TC-1650</a>] -         Save/Cancel buttons in configuration dialog not active
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/TC-1670'>TC-1670</a>] -         Description is not saved when creating/editing a Report
</li>
</ul>

### Known Issues

<body class="ql-editor ql-editor-view" style="font-size:14px;">
    <html>
        <body>
            <table width="100%">
                <thead><tr><th>Key</th><th>Summary</th><th>Workaround</th></tr></thead>
                <tbody>
                   <tr>
                      <td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-110413" target="_blank">NAS-110413</a></td>
                      <td>The UI is misreading the schedule for a Snapshot Task from True Command.</td>
                      <td></td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                      <td></td>
                      <td>Cluster Volumes.</td>

>                       <td> This is a brand new feature and is still being polished.</td>

Reviewer 2: and is still being polished. Please report bugs <here>

Author: Added

                  </tr>
                      <td></td>
                      <td>iSCSI Management.</td>

>                       <td> This is a brand new feature and is still being polished.</td>

Reviewer 2: and is still being polished. Please report bugs <here>

Author: Added

                  </tr>
			         </tbody>
            </table>
        </body>
    </html>

## To Download this Release
 
Login to the [TrueCommand Account Portal](https://portal.ixsystems.com) for downloads, documentation links, and licensing options.
For storage clusters with more than 50 disks, the account portal also offers a *free 60-day trial license with unlimited disks*.
 
## To Update to this Release
 
**Docker:** Re-run `docker pull ixsystems/truecommand:2.0_beta` to fetch this version of TrueCommand, and then restart your docker instance.
 
{{< hint warning >}}
**Pre-Release Testing Version**

> This is a BETA release and is not usable for production systems.

Reviewer 2: "not recommended for production systems"

Author: Changed
